I am the Shade.Through the dolent city, I flee. Through the eternal woe,I take flight.
Along the banks of the river Arno, I scramble, breathless . . . turning 
left onto Via dei Castellani, making my way northward, huddling in the 
shadows of the Uffizi.
And still they pursue me.
Their footsteps grow louder now as they hunt with relentless determination.
For years they have pursued me. Their persistence has kept me underground...
forced me to live in purgatory...laboring beneath the earth 
like a chthonic monster.I am the Shade.
Here aboveground, I raise my eyes to the north, but I am unable to 
find a direct path to salvation...for the Apennine Mountains are blotting
out the first light of dawn.
I pass behind the palazzo with its crenellated tower and onehanded 
clock...snaking  through  the  early morning  vendors  in
Piazza  San Firenze  with  their  hoarse  voices  smelling  of  
lampredotto and  roasted olives.
Crossing  before  the  Bargello,  I  cut  west  toward  the  spire  of  the  
Badia and come up hard against the iron gate at the base of the stairs.
Here all hesitation must be left behind.
I turn the handle and step into the passage from which I know there 
will be no return. I urge my leaden legs up the narrow staircase...
spiraling skyward on soft marble treads, pitted and worn.
The voices echo from below. Beseeching.
They are behind me, unyielding, closing in.
They do not understand what iscoming...nor what I have done for them!
Ungrateful land!
As I climb, the visions come hard...the lustful bodies writhing in 
fiery  rain,  the  gluttonous  souls  floating  in  excrement,  the  treacherous  
villains frozen in Satan's icy grasp.
I climb the final stairs and arrive at the top, staggering near dead into 
the damp morning air. I rush to the head-high wall, peering through the 
slits. Far below is the blessed city that I have made my sanctuary from 
those who exiled me.
The voices call out, arriving close behind me.What you've done is madness!
Madness breeds madness.
"For the love of God," they shout,"tell us where you've hidden it!"
For precisely the love of God, I will not.
I stand now, cornered, my back to the cold stone. They stare deep into 
my clear green eyes, and their expressions darken, no longer cajoling, but 
threatening."You know we have our methods. We can force you to tell 
us where it is."
For that reason,I have climbed halfway to heaven.
Without warning,I turn and reach up,curling my fingers onto the
high ledge,pulling myself up,scrambling onto my knees,then standing...unsteady
at the precipice. 
Guide me, dear Virgil, across the void.
